After a situation analysis,
the next step is to identify hazards.
Remember that for ISO 26262 hazardous situations arise
from electronic malfunctions that could cause injury to humans or damage human health.
Malfunctions are unintended behavior.
If the purpose of the lane departure of
warning function is to vibrate the steering wheel,
a malfunction could be that the vibration is too strong.
The hazard is that the driver could lose control of
the steering wheel which could result in a risk of collision with another vehicle.
Like the situation analysis,
we have a list of guide words to identify malfunctions.
We also have a list of potential accidents or hazardous events that could occur.
Notice that we are not yet concerned with the technical implementation of the item.
For instance, we are not yet thinking about which part of
the lane departure of warning is causing the excessive vibrations.
Maybe it could be a software bug or an issue with the vibration motor.
But we are not concerned with that level of detail yet.
We also assume that every other item in the vehicle is functioning correctly.
We're only concerned with the lane assistance item.
An entire hazard identification would include the function definition,
the malfunction under consideration chosen from the guide words,
the details of the malfunction,
the accident called the hazardous event,
details about the event and a summary description of the hazardous event.
So the complete hazard identification for
our lane departure warning example would look like this.
In the next step we'll combine situations and hazards together and measure risk.